- Now let us see the concept of binders in Spring MVC.
But, first, let's recap the @ModelAttribute annotation.
We know that this is used for data binding.
But in our UserBean class that we had written
on this other side,
all the values were of string data type.
So the AutoCAD version,
the parsing of the form fields
to the respective attributes on the Java object,
is done perfectly with @ModelAttribute.
Now, binders, they also serve the same purpose.
They extract and bind request data
to your Java model objects.
But it's a little different here,
because these are used for converting string
to complex data types that have been defined in your models.
Let's say the date of birth field
in our user class was actually of the date type
in the Java object.
Then the conversion would not have been a success
using @ModelAttribute.
That is the problem that we can solve with binders.
You can convert a string to date type
or a number type or an integer type,
and binders exclusively do that job for you.
How do they do that?
Now, there is a host of PropertyEditor instances
that have been exposed by the Spring MVC API
for you to do this job.
If you want to enable them,
you have to use the @Initbinder annotation.
This annotation is going to spawn
a web data binder instance,
which will do the job of converting the string
to the specific data type on your target object.
Now these are inbuilt.
These are available inside the framework.
However, if you wish to write your own editors,
that's also possible.
You have to implement the PropertyEditor interface
and provide a logic to its respective methods
so that Spring MVC understands how it is supposed
to convert to and fro from form to Java object and back.
In the next video,
we are going to see a small demo
with the binders for the date of birth field
on our registration form.